---
layout: page
title: "Testing"
category: dev
date: 2016-12-09 17:14:34
order: 3
---

## Automated Testing

Testing and linting are handled by Tox.
Using Tox, we can check code style and run the unit and integration tests with a single command.

~~~
$ tox
~~~

We use [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/softwaresaved/lowfat/actions) to run these checks against new changes pushed to the GitHub repository.
These checks are triggered with any commit pushed to or any Pull Request submitted to the `master` or `dev` branches.

On push to `dev` or `master`, the file `.github/workflows/django.yml` will run.  Part of the workflow calls `tox`, which causes the file `tox.ini` to run. 
In the `[testenv]` section of `tox.ini`, `manage.py test` is called and this runs all files in the working directory that follow the pattern `test*.py`,
in this case `test_forms.py`, `test_models.py`, and `test_urls.py`. These files contain the tests for lowFAT, written using django's testing framework.


## Manual Testing

If you want to test manually, run

~~~
$ python3 manage.py loaddata lowfat/fixtures/demo.json
$ python3 manage.py runserver
~~~
{: .language-plain-text }

### Logging in

To debug user reported issues it is somtimes necessary to mimic user behavior in a known environment. 
To this purpose we include several test users to log in as.

The users in the testing database:

| Year | Username | Password      | Permissions |
| ---- | -------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| N/A  | admin    | 123admin456   | staff       |
| 2014 | tanisha  | 123tan456     | fellow      |
| 2015 | orlando  | 123orlan456   | fellow      |
| 2015 | sharon   | 123sharon456  | fellow      |
| 2016 | ali      | 123ali456     | fellow      |
| 2016 | maya     | 123maya456    | fellow      |
| 2016 | rooney   | 123rooney456  | shortlisted |

Avatars are from [People vector created by Freepik](https://www.freepik.com/free-photos-vectors/people).


### Emails

LowFAT automates several email tasks. We use the Django text based email debugger. Any emails 'sent' by the test server
will appear in `tmp/emails/*.log`. Note: it may be necessary to activate emails using the django admin panel located 
here: [http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/constance/config/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/constance/config/) and selecting 
`CLAIMANT_EMAIL_NOTIFICATION` and/or `STAFF_EMAIL_NOTIFICATION`.


### Updating the testing database

Occasionally it may be necessary to update the testing database, for example to add fellows from new intakes or test 
other kinds of users. 

To export your changes on the database, run
~~~
$ python manage.py dumpdata -e sessions -e admin -e contenttypes -e auth.Permission -e lowfat.historicalclaimant -e lowfat.historicalfund -e lowfat.historicalexpense -e lowfat.historicalblog --indent 4 auth lowfat > fixtures/demo.json 
~~~
{: .language-plain-text }

To share your changes on the database, run
~~~
$ git commit -am 'Update database'
$ git push origin master
~~~
{: .language-plain-text }

and create a pull request.
